**Around half of COVID 19 patients who received an echocardiogram in hospital showed abnormalities in heart function, according to a prospective international survey funded by the British Heart Foundation and published in the European Heart Journal‒Cardiovascular Imaging (https://academic.oup.com/ehjcimaging/article/doi/10.1093/ehjci/jeaa178/5859292).
The study, authored by Marc Dweck (University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK), found that around one in seven showed severe abnormalities likely to have a major effect on their survival and recovery.**It also showed that one in three patients who received an echocardiography scan had their treatment changed as a result.
The findings suggest that heart scans could prove crucial for identifying patients who may benefit from additional treatments to improve their COVID 19 recovery and prevent potential long term damage to their heart, the Foundation said in a press release.
Marc Dweck, the study’s lead author and British Heart Foundation senior lecturer and consultant cardiologist at the University of Edinburgh (Edinburgh, UK), said: “COVID 19 is a complex, multisystem disease which can have profound effects on many parts of the body, including the heart.
Many doctors have been hesitant to order echocardiograms for patients with COVID 19 because it’s an added procedure which involves close contact with patients.
Our work shows that these scans are important – they improved the treatment for a third of patients who received them.
”Researchers from the British Heart Foundation Centre of Research Excellence at the University of Edinburgh looked at echocardiogram results of 1,216 patients from 69 countries with COVID 19.The scan results were sourced from many Covid 19 hotspots around the world, allowing researchers to urgently understand the impact of Covid 19 on the heart while the pandemic was at its peak.
In the study, over half (55%) of patients, including those with pre existing heart disease, showed abnormal changes to the way their heart was pumping, with around one in seven showing evidence of severe dysfunction.
The majority (901) had no known heart disease before the study and showed similar changes.
Almost half (46%) and one in eight (13%) showed abnormal changes and severe dysfunction respectively.
These changes were observed for the first time during the patients’ COVID 19 illness and the researchers believe they could be due to the effects of the virus.
Results showed that left ventricular abnormalities were reported in 479 (39%) patients, with echocardiographic evidence of new myocardial infarction in 36 (3%), myocarditis in 35 (3%), and takotsubo cardiomyopathy in 19 (2%).
Left ventricular impairment was classified as mild, moderate, or severe in 17, 12, and 9% of patients, respectively.
Right ventricular abnormalities were reported in 397 (33%) patients, with mild or moderate right ventricular impairment in 19% and severe impairment in 6%.
Right ventricular dilatation (15%), elevated pulmonary artery pressures (8%), and a D shaped left ventricle (4%) were reported less frequently.
Cardiac tamponade and endocarditis were reported in 11 (1%) and 14 (1%) patients, respectively.
Severe cardiac disease, defined as severe left or right ventricular dysfunction or cardiac tamponade, was reported in 1 in 7 patients (n = 182, 15%).
In the study, one third of patients had their treatment changed as a result of the echocardiogram.
This included being given medicines for heart failure, or more careful control of fluids and therapy designed to support heart function.
The researchers point out several limitations to the study given its observational design.
During the pandemic the number of scans being carried out would have been balanced with the risk of exposing staff, patients and equipment to the virus, they note, and patients who received the scans were in hospital and had suspected heart complications, usually because they had abnormal blood markers reflecting heart damage.
This study does not tell us how common heart changes are in people who did not receive a scan.
.
Technically, coronaviruses can contaminate cutlery or crockery if they're coughed on by an infected person.
But the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (BfR) states that no infections with SARS CoV 2 via this transmission route are known to date.
* Should parents fear a possible infection from imported toys?
It unlikely, say the BfR. As of yet, there are no cases of an infection via imported toys or other goods.
Initial laboratory tests show that the pathogens can remain infectious for up to 24 hours on cardboard and up to three days on plastic and stainless steel especially in high humidity and cold settings.
* A recent study from the Rocky Mountain Laboratories in the US found the novel coronavirus can survive up to 72 hours on stainless steel and up to 24 hours on cardboard surfaces — in an ideal laboratory setting. But because the survival of the virus is dependent on many factors like temperature and humidity, the BfR says getting infected from handling the post is rather unlikely.
* Experts consider the risk of pets being infected with the coronavirus to be very low.
But they can't yet rule it out.
The animals themselves show no symptoms, so they don't become ill.
However, if they are infected, it is possible they could transmit coronaviruses via the air or via excretions (their poop).
* Unlikely. According to the BfR, transmitting SARS CoV 2 via contaminated food is not likely to happen and, so far, there are no proven cases of infection this way.
As the viruses are heat sensitive, heating food during cooking can further reduce the risk of infection.
Of course, you should thoroughly wash your hands before cooking and eating — and this goes for anytime, regardless of corona!* Although the SARS and MERS coronaviruses known to date don't like heat, they are quite immune to the cold.
Research shows they can remain infectious at minus 20 degrees Celsius for up to two years.
But the BfR gives frozen food the all clear.
So far, there no evidence of SARS CoV 2 infection via the consumption of any food, including frozen food.
* The COVID 19 outbreak has prompted many extraordinary measures and China ban of the consumption of wild animals is no exception.
There is compelling research to suggest the novel coronavirus originated in bats before being passed to humans via another intermediate animal.
But it not the animals we need to blame — experts say humans are exposed to these viruses via our interaction with animals.
