Many of the faculty in the English department got their degrees in the 1960s.
This era has clearly left its mark on the faculty.
They are vocal proponents of environmental causes, and they often encourage their students to speak out on these issues.
Because of their wellknown stance as activists, many members of the faculty have been called to testify before Congress.
As a result, many members of this department have become recognizable faces on television news programs.
The English department faculty also have excellent reputations as teachers.
Not only are the faculty in this department extremely bright, they are able to enter the �beginner and present material in a clear engaging manner.
Because of this teaching skill, the English faculty have developed a rather smug attitude, and often look down on members of other departments.
As a result, the members of the English department are resented by many faculty from other departments.
A doctor is faced with a patient who has a malignant tumour in his stomach.
It is impossible to operate on the patient, but unless the tumour is destroyed the patient will die.
X rays can be used to destroy the tumour.
If an X ray reaches it at sufficiently high intensity the tumour will be destroyed.
Unfortunately, at this intensity the healthy tissue that the ray passes through on the way to the tumour will also be destroyed.
At lower intensities the ray is harmless to healthy tissue, but it will not affect the tumour either.
It looked like the patient was going to die.
A doctor is faced with a patient who has a malignant tumor in his stomach.
It is impossible to operate on the patient, but unless the tumor is destroyed the patient will die.
X rays can be used to destroy the tumor.
If a x ray reaches it at a sufficiently high intensity, the tumor will be destroyed.
Unfortunately at this intensity the healthy tissue that the ray passes through on the way to the tumor will also be destroyed.
At lower intensities the ray is harmless to healthy tissue
but it will not affect the tumor either.
What type of procedure might be used to destroy the tumor with the x rays and at the same time avoid destroying the healthy tissue?
The faculty in the Political Science department have strenuously and successfully pursuedresearch grants to allow them to conduct their research.
As a result, this departmenthas more money for the pursuit of research than any other department at the University.
This funding has allowed the faculty to hire research assistants for all of the faculty members.
Because every faculty member has a research assistant, the faculty have had enoughtime to maintain high level research careers without sacrificing the quality of their teaching.
The Political Science department at Fallsburg is one of the largest departments at theUniversity.
The undergraduate students have consistently rated the faculty in this departmentas the best teachers on campus.
Their reputation as fine teachers has spread throughoutthe campus so that almost every student wants to take at least one Political Sciencecourse during their studies.
This popularity has caused most of the Political Sciencecourses to be oversubscribed.
Students must often wait over a year to get into the course oftheir choice.
Conor is beside Paul.
Conor fears Paul.
Mark motivates Ronan.
Mark is beside Ronan.
Joe motivates Steven.
Woodstock had built a nest on top of Snoopy doghouse.
She had put her eggs in it and was waiting for them to hatch and the baby birds to come out.
But Snoopy was unhappy about all this.
The nest was in the way when he tried to lie down.
And Snoopy was afraid that when the baby birds arrived, they would make so much noise with their chirping that he wouldn't be able to sleep at all!
	Woodstock didn't want to get Snoopy upset, and so she agreed that the eggs would have to be moved.
So she built a new nest in a tree a little ways from Snoopy house.
But now there was one prob lem, and a very serious one.
How would they move the eggs safely from Snoopy rooftop to the new nest in the tree?
Snoopy and Woodstock were both afraid that the eggs would get broken if they tried to carry them down from the roof and up the tree.
They both thought and thought.
Then Snoopy had a great idea.
While Woodstock hovered in the air watching, Snoopy took a blanket and rolled it up.
Then he tossed it across so that it hooked on a branch of the tree.
The rolled blanket stretched right across to the new nest.
Then Snoopy carefully rolled the eggs one by one through the rolled blan ket into the nest in the tree.
All the eggs were soon moved safely.
Woodstock liked her new tree nest, and Snoopy was finally able to sleep comfortably again on his rooftop.
Cord ProblemSuppose you are in a room, where two cords are hung from the ceiling.
The two cords are of such a length that when you hold one cord in either hand, you cannot reach the other.
Your task is to tie the ends of these cords together.
To help you in this task, you may use any of the objects listed below, which are also in this room: poles, clamps, pliers, extension cords, tables, chairs.
An engineer plans the construction of an artificial lake to produce electric energy.
According to his first plan, a unique wide canal collects water coming from a valley and convey it into the lake.
The total labor cost for the construction of such canal is $17,66+
However, the engineer realizes that during the drought periods a unique stream of water may be insufficient to feed the lake.
In order to avoid this mishap, the engineer elaborates a second plan.
According to this plan, the lake is fed by four canals.
These canals are placed around the lake so that they convey water coming from four different belts.
In this way the lake is fed by water from various valleys, so that also during drought periods it is sufficiently fed.
To implement the second plan 12 laborers have to work 8 hours daily for 23 days.
Each laborer is paid $8 for each hour of work.
The total labor of the second plan is cheaper, equal or more expansive than the labor of the first plan?
The Political Science department has an odd mix of faculty.
About half of the professorshave a strong interest in the role of Socialist and Marxist ideology in world government.
The other half of the faculty study the emergence of democratic republics, particularly inThird World nations.
Despite these radically different orientations, most of the professorsare quite open minded.
In fact, the department recently organized a conference at whichboth groups gave talks about their findings.
The conference was quite well received, and afavorable story about the meeting appeared in The Washington Post.
Many of the faculty in the Political Science department got their degrees in the 1960s.
This era has clearly left its mark on the faculty.
They are vocal proponents of environmentalcauses, and they often encourage their students to speak out on these issues.
Because oftheir well known stance as activists, many members of the faculty have been called to testifybefore Congress.
Lisa hugs Jenny.
Mary employs Ali.
Mary sees Ali.
Laura hugs Ruth.
Laura employs Ruth.
The Birthday PartyIt was Jane sixth birthday and her mother wanted to make it a very special day for her.
So she organized a big surprise party and invited the neighborhood children without Jane knowing about it.
The plan was that the mother who usually picked up Jane after school would be late in order to allow the children time to arrive before Jane.
The big day finally arrived.
Everything was just about ready, and it was fifteen minutes before the children were supposed to come.
Jane mother was putting the final touches on the decorations for the party room.
She was covering the walls and ceiling with balloons and party streamers made of crepe paper and ribbons.
Jane mother was finishing up a decoration pattern.
Two final pieces were left that were dangling from the wood paneling above.
She had originally planned to knot these two pieces of ribbon together in order to attach balloons to them.
However, whenever she grabbed the end of one ribbon, colored blue, she was not able to grasp the other ribbon, colored pink, at the same time.
The ribbons simply were not long enough to be knotted together in this way.
It seemed that she would have to abandon her final bit of decoration.
Jane mother was just about to give up when she had an idea.
She took the pair of scissors that she had been using to cut the various ribbons and crepe paper, and attached the scissors to the end of the ribbon.
Next, she took hold of the scissors, and pointing them in the direction of the pink ribbon, swung them vigorously so that this blue ribbon now swayed alternately between the pink ribbon and a nearby wall.
She then ran quickly and took the end of the dangling pink ribbon and walked as close to the swinging blue ribbon as possible without letting go of the pink ribbon.
She then waited until the swinging blue ribbon came her way and caught it on the upswing.
While still holding the pink ribbon, she then removed the scissors from the other blue ribbon and knotted the two ribbons together.
Jane mother just managed to attach all her balloons on these ribbons, completing her decorations, before the children started pouring in.
Soon Jane arrived and was genuinely surprised.
The party was a great success, and all the mothers complemented Jane mother on the decorations.
In a university lab a very expensive lightbulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
One morning the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive lightbulb came into the lab and found to her dismay that the lightbulb no longer worked.
She realized that, she had forgotten to turn it off the previous night.
As a result the lightbulb overheated, and the filament inside the bulb had broken into two parts.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open It.
The lightbulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity laser ray could be used to fuse the two parts of the filament into one.
Furthermore the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, a high intensity laser ray would also break the fragile glass surrounding the filament.
At lower intensity the laser ray would not break the glass, but neither would it fuse the filament.
So it seemed that the lightbulb could not be repaired.
How could you solve this situation?
Zerdia True Analogy:
Once there was a small country called Zardia that learned to make the world smartest computer.
One day Zardia was attacked by its warlike neighbor, Gagrach.
But the missiles were badly aimed and the attack failed.
The Zardian government realized that Gagrach wanted Zardian computers so it offered to sell some of its computers to the country.
The government of Gagrach was very pleased.
It promised never to attack Zardia again.
Once upon a time there lived a magical genie.
He was a very old, wise, and rich genie indeed.
One day while he was polishing his home, which was actually a bottle, he decided he would like to find an even bigger and better home to live in.
So he began searching far and wide for another bottle.
Finally he found the perfect home.
It was larger, prettier, and not too far away from his old bottle.
The genie was very excited and began moving his belongings right away.
But now the genie had a problem.
He had a great many beautiful and very precious jewels in his old home.
He had to somehow get all the jewels from his old bottle to the new bottle without dropping or losing a single jewel.
After thinking a bit, the genie came up with a wonderful idea.
He searched for his magic carpet.
Then he commanded it to roll itself up into a long hollow tube.
Next the genie commanded his flying carpet to place one end at his old home and the other end at his new home so that it formed a sort of hollow bridge between the two bottles.
Then, the genie very carefully took one jewel from inside his old home and placed it into the opening of his carpet.
At once, the jewel began tumbling and rolling through the carpet tube until it reached his new home and plopped safely inside.
The genie grinned happily and began rolling all his jewels through the carpet into his new home.
In fact, I'm sure you can still find him sitting in his new, bigger and better bottle with all his jewels and smiling contentedly even today!
A water pumping station in the hills above Peshawar has recently been adapted to feed a nuclear power facility, where the water acts as a coolant.
Unfortunately the main pipe that leads from the water pumping station to the nuclear facility cannot stand the increased pressure and will eventually rupture.
The nuclear power facility must have a continuous supply at a certain volume or it will overheat and go into meltdown.
Experts have found that it is impossible to build a single large pipe to carry the water with the materials available that will not also rupture due to the high pressure of the water flowing through it.
The suggestion is: to build a number of pipes that have less water pressure.
The biology department at Fallsburg teaches many of the pre medical courses for thestudents, and also prides itself on maintaining an active research program.
Over the lastfew years, a number of the older faculty have taken advantage of an early retirement programoffered by the state, and, three younger faculty were lured to another school withoffers of higher salaries.
These departures have left the Biology department with fewer facultythan they would like to have.
Because there are fewer faculty than are needed in thisdepartment, it has been difficult for them to carry out all of the administrative work thatneeds to be done.
There are not enough faculty to organize meetings for faculty businessand to advise majors in biology.
The undergraduate students have consistently rated the faculty in this department as thebest teachers on campus.
Their reputation as fine teachers has spread throughout the campusso that almost every student wants to take at least one Biology course during their studies.
This popularity has caused most of the Biology courses to be oversubscribed.
Studentsmust often wait over a year to get into the course of their choice.
Two weak nations, Lincoln and Moreland, bordered each other .
Both countries reliedheavily on the tourist trade to keep their economies afloat .
They competed with each otherover which one of them would get the most tourists .
Meanwhile, another nearby nation,Chad, had a very strong economy with a thriving tourist trade .
Tourist cruises flocked intoits harbors and planes full of visitors were constantly landing in its airport .
Because of this,Moreland tried to join forces with Chad in its new advertising campaign to entice still moretourists .
Unfortunately a hurricane hit the coast and bankrupted all three nations.
Broken Light bulb problem insufficient intensity Laser In a physics lab at a major university, a very expensive light bulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
Ruth was the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive light bulb.
One morning she came into the lab and found to her dismay that the light bulb no longer worked.
She realized that she had forgotten to tum it off the previous night.
As a result the light bulb overheated, and the filament inside the bulb had broken into two parts.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open it.
Ruth knew that the light bulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity laser beam could be used to fuse the two parts of the filament into one.
Furthermore, the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, the lasers only generated low intensity beams that were not strong enough to fuse the filament.
She needed a much more intense laser beam.
So it seemed that the light bulb could not be repaired, and a costly replacement would be required.
Ruth was about to give up when she had an idea.
She placed several lasers in a circle around the light bulb, and administered low intensity laser beams from several directions all at once.
The beams all converged on the filament, where their combined effect was enough to fuse it.
Ruth was greatly relieved that the light bulb was repaired, and she then went on to successfully complete the experiment.
Once upon a time there lived a magical genie.
He was a very old, wise, and rich genie indeed.
One day while he was polishing his home, which was actually a bottle, he decided he would like to find an even bigger and better home to live in.
So he began searching far and wide for another bottle.
Finally he found the perfect home.
It was larger, prettier, and not too far away from his old bottle.
The genie was very excited and began moving his belongings right away.
But now the genie had a problem.
He had a great many beautiful and very precious jewels in his old home.
He had to somehow get all the jewels from his old bottle to the new bottle without dropping or losing a single jewel.
After thinking a bit, the genie came up with a wonderful idea.
He began searching for his magic staff, or wand.
He then commanded his staff to stretch itself from his old home to his new home.
Next, the genie tugged and pulled on his magical staff until at last he pulled the new bottle right up next to his old bottle.
At once, the genie began gathering his jewels together in his old home and simply dropped them carefully into his new home right next to him.
When all his jewels were safely tucked away in his new home, the genie settled in happily.
In fact, I'm sure you can still find him sitting in his new, bigger, and better bottle with all his jewels and smiling contentedly even today!
The computer science department at Gordmont is widely acknowledged to be one of thefinest groups of its kind in the world.
Over the last five years, the department has beenranked number one among computer science departments in terms of the number of publicationsby the faculty.
This success has allowed the members of the faculty to secure anumber of large contracts that provide funds for the professors to carry out their research.
Unfortunately, the research reputation of this department is only outdone by the personalreputations of the individual faculty.
Almost all of the professors are known to be difficultto get along with.
Indeed, the individual members of the department seem to have little orno respect for each other.
Red Adair
An oil well in Saudi Arabia exploded and caught fire.
The result was a blazing inferno that consumed an enormous quantity of oil each day.
After initial efforts to extinguish it failed, famed firefighter Red Adair was called in.
Red knew that the fire could be put out if a huge amount of fire retardant foam could be dumped on the base of the well.
There was enough foam available at the site to do the job.
However, there was no hose large enough to put all the foam on the fire fast enough.
The small hoses that were available could not shoot the foam quickly enough to do any good.
It looked like there would have to be a costly delay before a serious attempt could be made.
However, Red Adair knew just what to do.
He stationed men in a circle all around the fire, with all of the available small hoses.
When everyone was ready all of the hoses were opened up and foam was directed at the fire from all directions.
In this way a huge amount of foam quickly struck the source of the fire.
The blaze was extinguished, and the Saudis were satisfied that Red had earned his three million dollar fee.
Fused Light bulb fragile glass UltrasoundIn a physics lab at a major university, a very expensive light bulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
Ruth was the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive light bulb.
One morning she came into the lab and found to her dismay that the light bulb no longer worked.
She realized that she had forgotten to tum it off the previous night.
As a result the light bulb overheated, and two wires in the filament inside the bulb fused together.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open it.
Ruth knew that the light bulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity ultrasound wave could be used to jar apart the fused parts.
Furthermore, the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, a high intensity ultrasound wave would also break the fragile glass surrounding the filament.
At lower intensities the ultrasound wave would not break the glass, but neither would it jar apart the fused parts.
So it seemed that the light bulb could not be repaired, and a costly replacement would be required.
Ruth was about to give up when she had an idea.
She placed several ultrasound machines in a circle around the light bulb, and administered low intensity ultrasound waves from several directions all at once.
The waves all converged on the filament, where their combined effect was enough to jar apart the fused parts.
Since each spot on the surrounding glass received only a low intensity wave from one ultrasound machine, the glass was left intact.
Ruth was greatly relieved that the light bulb was repaired, and she then went on to successfully complete the experiment.
The Videogame Sales CaseVortex, Inc., a small video arcade software firm, had a promising new line of special forces videogames.
Keppel and Co., a major manufacturer of video arcade equipment in Europe, was working with Vortex to produce the hardware needed for the special forces games.
They were negotiating over how to share revenues from their joint product.
The deal was mostly going Vortex wanted to broaden the market for its products and Keppel needed a boost in sales to meet their shareholders expectations for the year.
However, the two companies were struggling with how to split sales revenues.
Keppel was demanding a high percentage from sales to finance the added expense of a custom made action control for Vortex games.
Further, Keppel knew that it had the greatest resources to get Vortex special forces games on the market.
On the other hand, Vortex was also demanding a high percentage from sales on the grounds that what was being sold was their games, they had the patent on the new action control, and Keppel was simply one of several available manufacturers.
Having negotiations at a standstill was bad for both companies because Keppel needed to increase their sales by the end of the year and Vortex needed to get their products out while they were still state of the art.
The breakthrough came when negotiators from Keppel and Vortex began discussing the differing needs of their companies.
The negotiation teams reached the following agreement: Vortex would give up some of its share of revenue for the remainder of the year to cover Keppel production costs and to aid their current financial situation.
In return, Keppel would give up a comparable share of revenue in future fiscal years for these products, and Vortex still maintained their patent on the new control device.
Carl wasn't working at the time.
He was very concerned because he had very little left in his bank account.
Several days later he had lunch with the president about becoming a broker.
Carl thought he had impressed people when he gave his resume to the investment firm.
Carl went to the department store and tried on some suits, and got a few.
He felt that he was moving up again.
The GeneralA small country was ruled from a strong fortress by a dictator.
The fortress was situated in the middle of the country, surrounded by farms and villages.
Many roads led to the fortress through the countryside.
A rebel general vowed to capture the fortress.
The general knew that an attack by his entire army would capture the fortress.
He gathered his army at the head of one of the roads, ready to launch a full scale direct attack.
However, the general then learned that the dictator had planted mines on each of the roads.
The mines were set so that small bodies of men could pass over them safely, since the dictator needed to move his troops and workers to and from the fortress.
However, any large force would detonate the mines.
Not only would this blow up the road, but it would also destroy many neighboring villages.
It therefore seemed impossible to capture the fortress.
However, the general devised a simple plan.
He divided his army into small groups and dispatched each group to the head of a different road.
When all was ready he gave the signal and each group marched down a different road.
Each group continued down its road to the fortress so that the entire army arrived together at the fortress at the same time.
In this way, the general captured the fortress and overthrew the dictator.
Zerdia Literal Similarity: Once there was an eagle named Zardia who nested on a rocky cliff.
One day she saw a sportsman coming with a cross bow and some bolts that had no feathers.
The sportsman attacked but the bolts missed.
Zardia realized that the sportsman wanted her tail feathers so she flew down and donated a few of her tail feathers to the sportsman.
The sportsman was pleased.
He promised never to attack eagles again.
The Identical TwinsOnce there were identical twins who were continually playing pranks on their family, friends, and teachers.
The annual school picnic was always a big event for the twins.
There were races and other athletic events in which the twins won lots of prizes.
One year a new student arrived who was a star runner.
The twins wanted to win the main event: the 2 mile race through the woods behind the school.
So they secretly devised a plan which would enable them to outdo the newcomer.
The day of the race arrived.
Each runner was to pick his own path through the woods to a clearing, where a teacher stood posted to determine the winner.
One twin entered the race, while the other excused himself on the grounds that he had hurt his leg in an earlier broad jumping event.
The race began and the students rushed into the woods.
The twin rushed into the woods and waited until the others had passed out of sight.
Then he went back to the school using a path hidden from the picnic area.
Shortly after, the other twin, who had been hiding behind a rock near the finish line of the race, burst out and ran into the clearing ahead of the other runners.
The teacher named him the winner and marveled at the speed of his running.
Next year the twins switched places and thereafter maintained their status on this event.
The Asian Merchant CaseSyd, a recently promoted head buyer of a small retail clothing chain in the United States, had bought some wholesale leather boots from a large Asian manufacturer.
All aspects of the deal had been successfully negotiated except the shipment of the boots.
Although Syd thought there might be potential difficulties in dealing with a large multinational conglomerate, she had decided to purchase boots from this rather than from several smaller available because of their aggressive pricing.
The sales representative from the Asian company told Syd that they would pay to ship the boots by boat.
Syd was concerned because the United States has announced that a trade embargo would likely be placed on all goods from that country in the near future.
The Asian sales representative told Syd not to worry because the boat would arrive at the U.S. dock before the embargo occurred.
Syd, however, thought that the boat would be late and that the multinational conglomerate policy to ship goods was not friendly to the needs of small businesses.
Syd wanted the merchant to pay to ship the boots by air freight (which was substantially more expensive).
The Asian sales representative refused because of the higher cost.
They argued about when the boat would arrive.
Syd considered breaking off the deal and buying the boots from her next best option, a small manufacturer.
However, she did not like their product line as well and also wanted to try to establish a relationship with the large multinational conglomerate.
Finally, after a lengthy discussion in which it seemed that the negotiations might break off unsuccessfully, Syd suggested a new proposal to the sales representative from the Asian manufacturer.
They would send the boots by air freight but both sides would watch when the boat actually docks in the United States.
If the boat happened to arrive on time (as the sales representative believed it would), Syd would pay for the added cost of air freight.
However, if the boat were to arrive late (as Syd believed it would), the Asian manufacturer would pay the air freight bill.
Syd and the Asian manufacturer were pleased with this proposal, and each party got the arrangement they wanted.
Ernie was really encouraged about his interview for a security guard at the new factory in town.
He thought he was saved.
Ernie went to the shopping mall and hunted around for a dark blue security guard uniform, and bought several.
The next day he received a phone call from the factory personnel director about the security guard position.
Ernie was dismayed that he had wasted money.
He didn't have a job.
The Wine MerchantsOne day a rich man found that his wine cellar was empty.
So he sent out messengers to announce a generous offer.
The first person to bring the rich man a barrel of wine would be given a brick of solid gold.
However, the offer would expire at sundown.
Two wine merchants heard the news.
Each had a horse drawn cart loaded with large barrels of wine.
They both set out for the duke palace at once.
An hour before sundown they came to a place where the bridge had been washed out by a raging river.
The first merchant drove his horses and cart into the flood in a desperate attempt to reach the other side.
But the horses were already exhausted and could not fight the current.
The cart overturned, and the horses, wine, and driver were washed away.
The second merchant tried a different tactic.
He poured the wine out of all but one of his barrels, and lashed them together to form a raft; then he loaded the one full barrel, a horse, and himself on top.
He set the raft adrift and floated downstream.
In a few minutes the raft came to rest on the shore in front of the town where the rich man lived.
The merchant disembarked, loaded the wine barrel on the horse, and led it to the rich man house.
He arrived just as the sun was setting, and collected the gold brick as a reward for his efforts.
Two bowls are on a table, one within the child reaph and one farther away.
One bowl contains a number of small gumballs, and the other is empty.
Also on the table is an aluminum walking cane, a large rectangular sheet of heavy paper (posterboard), a hollow cardboard tube long enough to reach the farther bowl, child safe scissors, string, tape, paper clips, and rubber bands.
The task is to use the materials provided, to transferr the balls from the filled bowl to the empty bowl without leaving their seat.
Tumor:Suppose you are a doctor faced with a patient who has a malignant tumor in his stomach.
It is impossible to operate on the patient, but unless the tumor is destroyed the patient will die.
There is a kind of ray that can be used to destroy the tumor.
If the rays reach the tumor all at once at a sufficiently high intensity, the tumor will be destroyed.
Unfortunately, at this intensity the healthy tissue that the rays pass through on the way to the tumor will also be destroyed.
At lower intensities the rays are harmless to healthy tissue, but they will not affect the tumor either.
What type of procedure might be used to destroy the tumor with the rays, and at the same time avoid destroying the healthy tissue?
Unfortunately, many of the faculty in the Biology department at Fallsburg have strongpersonalities and big egos.
Inevitably, this has led to personality clashes among the faculty.
It is not uncommon for faculty meetings in this department to erupt into shouting matches.
One result of these arguments is that the faculty rarely go to their University offices, exceptduring office hours to avoid running into their colleagues.
Because the faculty are rarely intheir offices, undergraduates and graduate students alike complain that the faculty are inaccessible.
One of the most striking aspects of the Biology department is the tremendous financialsupport for research.
One result of this has been a high level of motivation for faculty membersto excel at their research.
Faculty members in this department often spend long hourson their research.
This hard work has paid off, as the department is among the top 10 of allBiology departments in its research reputation nationally.
Having just been fired from a high level job, he decided to go to his church for counseling.
The pastor calmed the businessman.
The Commander:A military government was established after the elected government was toppled in a coup.
The military imposed martial law and abolished all civil liberties.
A tank corp commander and his forces remained loyal to the overthrown civilian government.
They hid in a forest waiting for a chance to launch a counterattack.
The commander felt he could succeed if only the military headquarters could be captured.
The headquarters was located on a heavily guarded island situated in the center of a lake.
The only way to reach the island was by way of several pontoon bridges that connected it to the surrounding area.
However, each bridge was so narrow and unstable that only a few tanks could cross at once.
Such a small force would easily be repulsed by the defending troops.
The headquarters therefore appeared invincible.
However, the tank commander tried an unexpected tactic.
He secretly sent a number of tanks to locations near each bridge leading to the island.
Then under cover of darkness the attack was launched simultaneously across each bridge.
All of the groups of tanks arrived on the island together and immediately converged on the military headquarters.
They managed to capture the headquarters and eventually restore the civilian government.
Once upon a time there lived a magical genie.
He was a very old, wise, and rich genie indeed.
One day while he was polishing his home, which was actually a bottle, an old friend came up.
The genie told his friend, I'm going to look for a bigger and better home to live in.
Will you help me look?
So they began searching far and wide for another bottle.
Finally the genie found the perfect home.
It was larger, prettier, and not too far away from his old bottle.
The genie was very excited and wanted to begin moving his be longings right away.
But now the genie had a prob lem.
He had a great many beautiful and very precious jewels in his old home.
He had to somehow get all the jewels from his old bottle to the new bottle without dropping or losing a single jewel.
After thinking a bit, the genie came up with a wonderful idea.
He began searching for his magic staff, or wand.
He then commanded his staff to stretch itself from his old home to his new home.
Next, the genie tugged and pulled on his magical staff until at last he pulled the new bottle right up next to his old bottle.
At once, the genie began gathering his jewels together in his old home and simply dropped them carefully into his new home right next to him.
When all his jewels were safely tucked away in his new home, the genie settled in happily.
He invited his friend to come in and admire his new home.
His friend came in and said, What a good house for you!
I'm sure you can still find the genie sitting in his new bigger and better bottle with all his jewels and smiling contentedly even today!
The biology department at Fallsburg teaches many of the pre medical courses for thestudents, and also prides itself on maintaining an active research program.
Over the lastfew years, a number of the older faculty have taken advantage of an early retirement programoffered by the state, and, three younger faculty were lured to another school withoffers of higher salaries.
These departures have left the Biology department with fewer facultythan they would like to have.
Because there are fewer faculty than are needed in thisdepartment, it has been difficult for them to carry out all of the administrative work thatneeds to be done.
There are not enough faculty to organize meetings for faculty businessand to advise majors in biology.
Many of the faculty in the biology department got their degrees in the 1960s.
This erahas clearly left its mark on the faculty.
They are vocal proponents of environmental causes,and they often encourage their students to speak out on these issues.
Because of their wellknownstance as activists, many members of the faculty have been called to testify beforeCongress.
Consistent targetHaving just been fired from a high level job, he decided to go to his church for counseling.
The pastor calmed the businessman.
Inconsistent targetThe church was having trouble approaching local corporations for contributions to the shelter.
The executive soothed the priest.
Cue sentenceThe rabbi reassured the chairman.
Set A, Theme I:
Ernie was really encouraged about his interview for a security guard at the new factory in town.
He thought he was saved.
Ernie went to the shopping mall and hunted around for a dark blue security guard uniform, and bought several.
The next day he received a phone call from the factory personnel director about the security guard position.
Ernie was dismayed that he had wasted money.
He didn't have a job.
Set A, Theme 2: Carl wasn't working at the time.
He was very concerned because he had very little left in his bank account.
Several days later he had lunch with the president about becoming a broker.
Carl thought he had impressed people when he gave his resume to the investment firm.
Carl went to the department store and tried on some suits, and got a few.
He felt that he was moving up again.
Set B, Theme I:
Ronnie thought she had it made because she thought she had done well in the audition for a keyboard player.
Ronnie went to the music store, played some electric organs, and then purchased one.
Later she got a message from the guitar player about playing keyboards.
She wasn't in a band.
Ronnie was depressed that she had run up her credit card.
Set B, Theme 2: Cindy was upset that she had blown her savings.
She wasn't employed.
Cindy was really happy about her tryout as dancer for a new musical.
That night she met the director about the dancer position.
Cindy got over to some stores, searched for, and bought some leotards.
She believed her troubles were over.
The computer science department at Gordmont is widely acknowledged to be one of thefinest groups of its kind in the world.
Recently, the department has begun to attract researchfunding from both federal granting agencies and private research foundations.
Currently,the department is one of the best funded departments on campus.
Despite the focus onresearch, the faculty have bonded together in a spirit of social activism.
The members ofthe department often organize campus wide events like a recycling awareness day.
Fortress 3 Tunnel:A small country fell under the iron rule of a dictator.
The dictator ruled the country from a strong fortress.
The fortress was situated in the middle of the country, surrounded by farms and villages.
Many roads radiated outward from the fortress like spokes on a wheel.
A great general arose who raised a large army at the border and vowed to capture the fortress and free the country of the dictator.
The general knew that if his entire army could attack the fortress at once it could be captured.
His troops were poised at the head of one of the roads leading to the fortress, ready to attack.
However, a spy brought the general a disturbing report.
The ruthless dictator had planted mines on each of the roads.
The mines were set so that small bodies of men could pass over them safely, since the dictator needed to be able to move troops and workers to and from the fortress.
However, any large force would detonate the mines.
Not only would this blow up the road and render it impassable, but the dictator would then destroy many villages in retaliation.
	The general, however, was undaunted.
He and his men dug an underground tunnel beneath the mines following the route of the road to the fortress.
When the tunnel was dug, the men crawled through it until they arrived safely at the foot of the fortress.
Here they all gathered together and attacked the fortress in full strength.
In this way, the general was able to capture the fortress and overthrow the dictator.
Fused Light bulb insufficient UltrasoundIn a physics lab at a major university, a very expensive light bulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
Ruth was the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive light bulb.
One morning she came into the lab and found to her dismay that the light bulb no longer worked.
She realized that she had forgotten to tum it off the previous night.
As a result the light bulb overheated, and two wires in the filament inside the bulb fused together.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open it.
Ruth knew that the light bulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity ultrasound wave could be used to jar apart the fused parts.
Furthermore, the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, the ultrasound machines only generated low intensity waves that were not strong enough to fuse the filament.
She needed a much more intense ultrasound wave.
So it seemed that the light bulb could not be repaired, and a costly replacement would be required.
Ruth was about to give up when she had an idea.
She placed several ultrasound machines in a circle around the light bulb, and administered low intensity ultrasound waves from several directions all at once.
The waves all converged on the filament, where their combined effect was enough to jar apart the fused parts.
Ruth was greatly relieved that the light bulb was repaired, and she then went on to successfully complete the experiment.
An engineer plans the construction of an artificial lake to produce electric energy.
According to his first plan, a single wide canal collects water coming from a valley and conveys it into the lake.
However, the engineer realizes that during the flood periods the stream of water flowing along the canal may be too strong and may damage the surrounding areas.
He also realizes that during the drought periods a single stream of water may be insufficient to feed the lake.
In order to avoid these mishaps, the engineer elaborates a second plan.
According to this plan, the lake is fed by four small canals whose total flow is the same as the single wide canal previously planned.
These small canals are placed around the lake so that they convey water coming from four different valleys.
In this way only small amounts of water can flow in each canal and thus during flood periods dangerous overflowings might not occur.
At the same time, the lake is fed by water from various valleys, so that also during drought periods it is sufficiently fed.
Two small countries, Bolon and Salam, were adjacent to a large, warlike country calledMayonia.
Bolon decided to make the best of the situation by taking over Salam.
Salamstarted looking for aid from other strong countries but soon Bolon succeeded in taking itover.
Then victorious Bolon proposed to make a treaty with its warlike neighbor Mayonia.
Bolon proposed to give Mayonia control over Salam in exchange for a guarantee that Bolonwould remain independent.
Mayonia responded by overrunning both Bolon and Salam.
Bolon was so busy maintaining control of Salam, it could do nothing to stop Mayonia.
Thereupon Mayonia installed puppet governments in both Bolon and Salam and took overthe newspapers and ratio stations.
The Political Science department has an odd mix of faculty.
About half of the professorshave a strong interest in the role of Socialist and Marxist ideology in world government.
The other half of the faculty study the emergence of democratic republics, particularly inThird World nations.
Despite these radically different orientations, most of the professorsare quite open minded.
In fact, the department recently organized a conference at whichboth groups gave talks about their findings.
The conference was quite well received, and afavorable story about the meeting appeared in The Washington Post.
The faculty in Political Science are quite active researchers, and almost all of them haveresearch grants from large government agencies.
These grants provide the department withmoney to hire personnel.
Because of the large number of grants, the department has beenable to hire research assistants for every faculty member.
A magpie named Sam sang all summer.
When winter came he paid avisit to a chipmunk and performed a ballad for her, hoping she would givehim some nuts in return.
However, the chipmunk was not at all pleased.
You don't deserve any nuts of mine!
she exclaimed.
Your song was terrible.
Percy the mockingbird spent the whole warm season chirping and twittering.
When it began to get colder Percy visited a squirrel and sang a song for her, expecting to get some of the squirrel sunflower seeds in return.
However, the squirrel was very disappointed in him.
You are a terrible singer!
she yel1ed. '
Tm not giving you any of my wheat.
A tear roUed down Percy cheek, and he vowed to give up singing for good.
Once there was a small country called Zerdia that learned to make the world smartestcomputer.
Zerdia sold one of its supercomputers to its neighbor, Gagrach, so Gagrachwould promise never to attack Zerdia.
But one day Zerdia was overwhelmed by a surpriseattach from Gagrach.
As it capitulated the crippled government of Zerdia realized that theattacker missiles had been guided by Zerdian supercomputers.
A magpie named Sam sang all summer.
When winter came he paid avisit to a chipmunk.
However, the chipmunk was not at all pleased with Sam.
You have wasted the summer while I have been hard at work!
shesaid.
Sam performed a ballad for her hoping she would give him some nutsin return.
But she was still not pleased.
I will not give you any of mynuts!
she exclaimed.
The English department at Fallsburg is one of the largest departments at the University.
The undergraduate students have consistently rated the faculty in this department as the best teachers on campus.
Their reputation as fine teachers has spread throughout the campusso that almost every student wants to take at least one English course during their studies.
This popularity has caused most of the English courses to be oversubscribed.
Studentsmust often wait over a year to get into the course of their choice.
Unfortunately, many of the faculty in the English department have strong personalitiesand big egos.
Inevitably, this has led to personality clashes among the faculty.
It is notuncommon for faculty meetings in this department to erupt into shouting matches.
Oneresult of these arguments is that the faculty rarely go to their University offices, except duringoffice hours to avoid running into their colleagues.
A major aquarium in a city on the East Coast decided to create alarge aquarium display containing a replica of the sunken ocean linerthe Titanic amid the sea environment of its resting place, which isdeep in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Newfoundland.
A professionalaquarium designer was assigned to the project.
She placed asmall replica of the vessel in the center of a large tank, with a realisticsea bed.
Then she added to the tank sea plants and fish of the sortthat live in the Atlantic at the depth of the sunken Titanic.
Thedisplay was virtually finished when the designer was confronted witha major problem she had failed to anticipate.
In order to maintainthe deep water environment required by the fish and plants, the tankhad to be kept quite dark, as the deep water organisms were notadapted to light.
However, if the tank was kept completely dark,people would not be able to see the small replica of the Titanic in thecenter of the tank, which, after all, was the main point of the exhibit.
Putting lights inside the model of the wreck looked too artificial.
Thedesigner considered shining a powerful spotlight on the model of thevessel.
However, if the spotlight was located inside the tank, it wouldraise the temperature of the water too high; and if it was locatedoutside the tank, the bright beam seriously disrupted the feeding habits of some of the fish.
So it looked like the display was going tohave an embarrassing shortcoming.
What could be done to light the display?
Write your solutionbelow.
Remember to use the same principles that were used in thestories you read.
Just before the display was to open, the designer hit upon a newidea.
She had several low powered spotlights placed at differentlocations around the outside of the tank, all focused on the replica ofthe ship.
Each of the lights was quite dim, so the light averse fish werenot disturbed as they swam around the Titanic.
But since all of thelights were focused on the ship, their beams added up so as toilluminate it enough that its realistic details could be seen by viewers.
When the display opened, everyone thought it was both realistic andesthetically striking.
Fortress 2 Supply Route:
A small country fell under the iron rule of a dictator.
The dictator ruled the country from a strong fortress.
The fortress was situated in the middle of the country, surrounded by farms and villages.
Many roads radiated outward from the fortress like spokes on a wheel.
A great general arose who raised a large army at the border and vowed to capture the fortress and free the country of the dictator.
The general knew that if his entire army could attack the fortress at once it could be captured.
His troops were poised at the head of one of the roads leading to the fortress, ready to attack.
However, a spy brought the general a disturbing report.
The ruthless dictator had planted mines on each of the roads.
The mines were set so that small bodies of men could pass over them safely, since the dictator needed to be able to move troops and workers to and from the fortress.
However, any large force would detonate the mines.
Not only would this blow up the road and render it impassable, but the dictator would then destroy many villages in retaliation.
	The general, however, was undaunted.
He knew that one major thoroughfare leading to the fortress was always kept open as a supply route.
He led his army to the head of the supply route.
When all was ready he gave the signal, and the entire army charged down the open route.
The army avoided the mines and attacked the fortress in full strength.
In this way, the general was able to capture the fortress and overthrow the dictator.
The church was having trouble approaching local corporations for contributions to the shelter.
The executive soothed the priest.
Sam travelled all over the world buying beautiful things.
When he ranout of money he paid a visit to his mother.
However, she was not at allpleased with him.
While I have been hard at work you have been wasting your time,she said.
Sam gave her a gift he bought in Tibet, hoping she would givehim a loan in return.
But she was still not pleased.
I will not give you anyof my hard earned money!
she exclaimed.
One unusually warm spell in February Sam the magpie thought ''
Thisis my chance.
He stood up on the edge of his nest and trilled proudly.
His song was so loud and cheerful that it woke a nearby chipmunk.
Thechipmunk asked for another song.
He was so moved by Sam talents thathe forgot
it was still winter and decided to go looking for nuts to store.
In a university lab a very expensive lightbulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
One morning the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive lightbulb came into the lab and found to her dismay that the lightbulb no longer worked.
She realized that, she had forgotten to turn it off the previous night.
As a result the lightbulb overheated, and the filament inside the bulb had broken into two parts.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open It.
The lightbulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity laser ray could be used to fuse the two parts of the filament into one.
Furthermore the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, a high intensity laser ray would also break the fragile glass surrounding the filament.
At lower intensity the laser ray would not break the glass, but neither would it fuse the filament.
So it seemed that the lightbulb could not be repaired.
How could you solve this situation?
The degree of animosity between members of the faculty in Anthropology is obvious toanyone who looks at the department.
This has not gone unnoticed at other Universities,where it has been viewed as a potential opportunity, and at least once per semester, a facultymember in the department is offered another job at a prestigious University.
The offersfrom outside schools has led a number of faculty members to leave in recent years.
Because of their work with people with people from other cultures, the Anthropologyfaculty tend to be politically active.
In particular, the faculty in this department are on theboards of many charities.
In their classes, they organize fund raising drives for multi culturalcauses.
This activity has fostered a spirit of giving at the University, and has led to astrong community involvement among students.
The Annual Meeting Case The Sales and Marketing divisions of a large health maintenance corporation were trying to decide where to hold their annual meeting.
There were substantial disagreements between the two divisions that were beginning to create conflict between them.
The Sales division wanted to go to a lodge in the mountains.
They had researched this possibility already and were anxious to reserve a location as soon as possible.
The Marketing division, on the other hand, wanted to go a major city.
They had already generated materials on the potential exposure of their company in several urban markets in preparation.
The two divisions considered the compromise of holding two annual meetings, but both the added cost and the hectic travel schedules of the executives involved made this option unfeasible.
There was added pressure from company leaders to hold a single annual meeting given the potential benefits of building better working relationships across divisions which had a history of tense and competitive relations.
Indeed, one objective of the annual meeting was to foster better relations between the two divisions.
One member of the Sales division was appointed to negotiate with one member of the Marketing division concerning the location of the annual meeting.
As the division planners gained trust in each other, important understandings emerged.
The Sales division desired to run the annual meeting as a retreat to talk about important company issues, which required having a location suitable to focusing on the work at hand.
The Marketing division saw the annual meeting as an opportunity to promote the company image.
The two divisions resolved to create a well publicized annual meeting located in the mountains, and they agreed to maintain open lines of communication between divisions.
The Two Poor Brothers CaseTwo fairly poor brothers, Ben and Jerry, had just inherited a working farm whose main crop has a volatile price.
Ben wanted to sell rights to the farm output under a long term contract for a fixed amount rather than depend upon shares of an uncertain revenue stream.
In short, Ben was risk averse.
Jerry, on the other hand, was confident that the next season would be spectacular and revenues would be high.
In short, Jerry was risk seeking.
The two argued for days and nights.
Ben wanted to sell immediately because he believed the price of the crop would fall; Jerry wanted to keep the farm because he believed the price of the crop would increase.
Jerry could not afford to buy Ben out at the time, but the strain on their family relationship over their disagreements was becoming too large.
Ben had always trusted Jerry instincts in the past, but this time felt Jerry was being overly optimistic.
In an effort to settle the matter and close up the growing rift between them, the two brothers agreed to meet with a family business advisor.
Following the consultation, Jerry proposed a possible agreement to his brother: They would keep the farm for another season.
If the price of the crop fell below a certain price (as Ben thought it would), then they would sell the farm and Ben would get 50% of the farm current value, adjusted for inflation; Jerry would get the rest.
However, if the price of the crop were to rise (as Jerry thought it would), Jerry would buy Ben out for 50% of the farm current value, adjusted for inflation, and would get to keep all of the additional profits for himself.
Jerry was delighted when his brother told him he could agree to this arrangement, thereby avoiding further conflict.
Two weak nations, Lincoln and Moreland, bordered each other.
Both countries reliedheavily on the tourist trade to keep their economies afloat.
They competed with each otherover which one of them would get the most tourists.
Meanwhile, another nearby nation,Chad, had a very strong economy with a thriving tourist trade.
Tourist cruises flocked intoits harbors and planes full of visitors were constantly landing in its airport.
Because of this,Moreland tried to join forces with Chad in its new advertising campaign to entice still moretourists.
Unfortunately a hurricane hit the coast and bankrupted all three nations.
Zerdia Mere appearance: Once there was an eagle named Zardia who donated a few of her tail feathers to a sportsman so he would promise never to attack eagles.
One day Zardia was resting high on a rocky cliff when she saw the sportsman coming with a cross bow.
Zardia flew down to meet the man, but he attacked and felled her with a single bolt.
As she fluttered to the ground Zardia realized that the bolt had her own tail feathers on it.
Once upon a time there lived a magical genie.
He was a very old, wise, and rich genie indeed.
One day while he was polishing his home, which was actually a bottle, an old friend came up.
The genie and his friend had lived together long ago.
They talked about how much fun it had been to play and do magic together.
The genie friend said, I'm looking for a new home right now.
The genie said, Let find a bottle big enough for both of us.
Then we can live together and have fun again.
They began searching far and wide for a bigger bottle.
They searched and they searched.
Finally they found the perfect home, a bottle that was big enough for both of them.
The genie was very excited.
He wanted to move all his belongings right away so he and his friend could settle in.
But the bottle was very far away and the genie had many beautiful jewels to move.
It would be a lot easier for the genie to move if his new home was closer to his old one.
Now the genie had a problem.
How could he get his new bottle up close to his old bottle?
After thinking a bit the genie came up with a wonderful idea.
He began searching for his magic staff, or wand.
He then commanded his staff to stretch itself from his old home to their new home.
Next, the genie tugged and pulled on his magical staff until at last he pulled the new bottle right up next to his old bottle.
Then the genie was happy.
He could move in no time at all.
He gathered up his jewels in his old home and dropped them carefully into their new home right next to him.
Then the genie said to his friend, What a wonderful home!
Now we can play and do magic together every day.
The genie friend just smiled and smiled.
I'm sure you can still find the two of them sitting in their bigger bottle playing and doing magic even today!
Sam travel1ed all over the world buying beautiful things.
When he ranout of money he paid a visit to his mother and gave her a gift he boughtwhile in Tibet, hoping she would give him a loan in return.
However, hismother was not at all pleased.
You don't deserve any money of mine!
she exclaimed.
This is a piece of junk!
After many years of research, a Philadelphia doctor of Osteopathy thinks that he has found a way to alleviate chronic back pain.
The doctor theorizes that if a high velocity thrust can be applied to a fairly wide section of the lumber region of a person back they will be cured.
Unfortunately, the doctor has found it impossible to test his theory because he is unable to deliver a high velocity thrust of sufficient force because such a thrust requires more strength than the doctor possesses.
The suggestion is: to have the doctor develop a machine that is capable of delivering the high velocity thrust.
The music department at Gordmont is a relatively new department, begun in 1987 inresponse to student pressure for more music classes.
Because of the focus on undergraduateeducation at Gordmont, the University searched for the best instructors that it couldfind.
The success of this effort is evident in the fact that the faculty in this department havebeen awarded the prestigious University Teaching Award in each of the last three years.
Interestingly, because it is a new department, there has been a long period of adjustment infaculty relations.
The faculty do not seem to get along well at all, and the members of thedepartment seem to have little or no respect for each other.
Two small countries, Bolon and Salam, were adjacent to a large, warlike country called Mayonia.
Bolon decided to make the best of the situation by taking over Salam.
Salam started looking for aid from other strong countries but soon Bolon succeeded in taking it over .
Then victorious Bolon proposed to make a treaty with its warlike neighbor Mayonia.
Bolon proposed to give Mayonia control over Salam in exchange for a guarantee that Bolon would remain independent.
Mayonia responded by overrunning both Bolon and Salam.
Bolon was so busy maintaining control of Salam, it could do nothing to stop Mayonia.
Thereupon Mayonia installed puppet governments in both Bolon and Salam and took over the newspapers and ratio stations.
Cindy was upset that she had blown her savings.
She wasn't employed.
Cindy was really happy about her tryout as dancer for a new musical.
That night she met the director about the dancer position.
Cindy got over to some stores, searched for, and bought some leotards.
She believed her troubles were over.
Source Cue sentenceThe rabbi reassured the chairman.
Set A, Theme I:
Ernie was really encouraged about his interview for a security guard at the new factory in town.
He thought he was saved.
Ernie went to the shopping mall and hunted around for a dark blue security guard uniform, and bought several.
The next day he received a phone call from the factory personnel director about the security guard position.
Ernie was dismayed that he had wasted money.
He didn't have a job.
Set A, Theme 2: Carl wasn't working at the time.
He was very concerned because he had very little left in his bank account.
Several days later he had lunch with the president about becoming a broker.
Carl thought he had impressed people when he gave his resume to the investment firm.
Carl went to the department store and tried on some suits, and got a few.
He felt that he was moving up again.
Set B, Theme I:
Ronnie thought she had it made because she thought she had done well in the audition for a keyboard player.
Ronnie went to the music store, played some electric organs, and then purchased one.
Later she got a message from the guitar player about playing keyboards.
She wasn't in a band.
Ronnie was depressed that she had run up her credit card.
Set B, Theme 2: Cindy was upset that she had blown her savings.
She wasn't employed.
Cindy was really happy about her tryout as dancer for a new musical.
That night she met the director about the dancer position.
Cindy got over to some stores, searched for, and bought some leotards.
She believed her troubles were over.
Broken Light bulb fragile glass LaserIn a physics lab at a major university, a very expensive light bulb which would emit precisely controlled quantities of light was being used in some experiments.
Ruth was the research assistant responsible for operating the sensitive light bulb.
One morning she came into the lab and found to her dismay that the light bulb no longer worked.
She realized that she had forgotten to tum it off the previous night.
As a result the light bulb overheated, and the filament inside the bulb had broken into two parts.
The surrounding glass bulb was completely sealed, so there was no way to open it.
Ruth knew that the light bulb could be repaired if a brief, high intensity laser beam could be used to fuse the two parts of the filament into one.
Furthermore, the lab had the necessary equipment to do the job.
However, a high intensity laser beam would also break the fragile glass surrounding the filament.
At lower intensities the laser would not break the glass, but neither would it fuse the filament.
So it seemed that the light bulb could not be repaired, and a costly replacement would be required.
Ruth was about to give up when she had an idea.
She placed several lasers in a circle around the light bulb, and administered low intensity laser beams from several directions all at once.
The beams all converged on the filament, where their combined effect was enough to fuse it.
Since each spot on the surrounding glass received only a low intensity beam from one laser, the glass was left intact.
Ruth was greatly relieved that the light bulb was repaired, and she then went on to successfully complete the experiment.
Set B, Theme I:
Ronnie thought she had it made because she thought she had done well in the audition for a keyboard player.
Ronnie went to the music store, played some electric organs, and then purchased one.
Later she got a message from the guitar player about playing keyboards.
She wasn't in a band.
Ronnie was depressed that she had run up her credit card.
Fortress 1 Dispersion Attack:A small country fell under the iron rule of a dictator.
The dictator ruled the country from a strong fortress.
The fortress was situated in the middle of the country, surrounded by farms and villages.
Many roads radiated outward from the fortress like spokes on a wheel.
A great general arose who raised a large army at the border and vowed to capture the fortress and free the country of the dictator.
The general knew that if his entire army could attack the fortress at once it could be captured.
His troops were poised at the head of one of the roads leading to the fortress, ready to attack.
However, a spy brought the general a disturbing report.
The ruthless dictator had planted mines on each of the roads.
The mines were set so that small bodies of men could pass over them safely, since the dictator needed to be able to move troops and workers to and from the fortress.
However, any large force would detonate the mines.
Not only would this blow up the road and render it impassable, but the dictator would then destroy many villages in retaliation.
A full scale direct attack on the fortress therefore appeared impossible.
The general, however, was undaunted.
He divided his army up into small groups and dispatched each group to the head of a different road.
When all was ready he gave the signal, and each group charged down a different road.
All of the small groups passed safely over the mines, and the army then attacked the fortress in full strength.
In this way, the general was able to capture the fortress and overthrow the dictator.
Tom is tall.
Tom is timid.
Bill is smart.
Bill is tall.
Steve is smart.
87 Catrambone C Aquarium ProbA major aquarium in a city on the East Coast decided to create alarge aquarium display containing a replica of the sunken ocean linerthe Titanic amid the sea environment of its resting place, which isdeep in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Newfoundland.
A professionalaquarium designer was assigned to the project.
She placed asmall replica of the vessel in the center of a large tank, with a realisticsea bed.
Then she added to the tank sea plants and fish of the sortthat live in the Atlantic at the depth of the sunken Titanic.
Thedisplay was virtually finished when the designer was confronted witha major problem she had failed to anticipate.
In order to maintainthe deep water environment required by the fish and plants, the tankhad to be kept quite dark, as the deep water organisms were notadapted to light.
However, if the tank was kept completely dark,people would not be able to see the small replica of the Titanic in thecenter of the tank, which, after all, was the main point of the exhibit.
Putting lights inside the model of the wreck looked too artificial.
Thedesigner considered shining a powerful spotlight on the model of thevessel.
However, if the spotlight was located inside the tank, it wouldraise the temperature of the water too high; and if it was locatedoutside the tank, the bright beam seriously disrupted the feeding habits of some of the fish.
So it looked like the display was going tohave an embarrassing shortcoming.
What could be done to light the display?
Write your solutionbelow.
Remember to use the same principles that were used in thestories you read.87 Catrambone Aquarium Problem AND SolutionA major aquarium in a city on the East Coast decided to create alarge aquarium display containing a replica of the sunken ocean linerthe Titanic amid the sea environment of its resting place, which isdeep in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Newfoundland.
A professionalaquarium designer was assigned to the project.
She placed asmall replica of the vessel in the center of a large tank, with a realisticsea bed.
Then she added to the tank sea plants and fish of the sortthat live in the Atlantic at the depth of the sunken Titanic.
Thedisplay was virtually finished when the designer was confronted witha major problem she had failed to anticipate.
In order to maintainthe deep water environment required by the fish and plants, the tankhad to be kept quite dark, as the deep water organisms were notadapted to light.
However, if the tank was kept completely dark,people would not be able to see the small replica of the Titanic in thecenter of the tank, which, after all, was the main point of the exhibit.
Putting lights inside the model of the wreck looked too artificial.
Thedesigner considered shining a powerful spotlight on the model of thevessel.
However, if the spotlight was located inside the tank, it wouldraise the temperature of the water too high; and if it was locatedoutside the tank, the bright beam seriously disrupted the feeding habits of some of the fish.
So it looked like the display was going tohave an embarrassing shortcoming.
What could be done to light the display?
Write your solutionbelow.
Remember to use the same principles that were used in thestories you read.
Just before the display was to open, the designer hit upon a newidea.
She had several low powered spotlights placed at differentlocations around the outside of the tank, all focused on the replica ofthe ship.
Each of the lights was quite dim, so the light averse fish werenot disturbed as they swam around the Titanic.
But since all of thelights were focused on the ship, their beams added up so as toilluminate it enough that its realistic details could be seen by viewers.
When the display opened, everyone thought it was both realistic andesthetically striking.
An engineer plans the construction of an artificial lake to produce electric energy.
According to his first plan, a unique wide canal collects water coming from a valley and convey it into the lake.
The total labor cost for the construction of such canal is $17,664.
However, the engineer realizes that the capacity of the lake is not sufficient to produce the needed amount of energy.
However, it is`not possible to enlarge the lake because there are no free areas around it.
In order to avoid this mishap, the engineer elaborates a second plan.
According to this plan, the lake must be deepened so that it contains a higher amount of water.
To implement the second plan 12 laborers have to work 8 hours daily for 23 days.
Each laborer is paid $8 for each hour of work.
The total labor of the second plan is cheaper, equal or more expansive than the labor of the first plan?
87 Catrambone Aquarium Problem AND SolutionA major aquarium in a city on the East Coast decided to create alarge aquarium display containing a replica of the sunken ocean linerthe Titanic amid the sea environment of its resting place, which isdeep in the Atlantic Ocean off the coast of Newfoundland.
A professionalaquarium designer was assigned to the project.
She placed asmall replica of the vessel in the center of a large tank, with a realisticsea bed.
Then she added to the tank sea plants and fish of the sortthat live in the Atlantic at the depth of the sunken Titanic.
Thedisplay was virtually finished when the designer was confronted witha major problem she had failed to anticipate.
In order to maintainthe deep water environment required by the fish and plants, the tankhad to be kept quite dark, as the deep water organisms were notadapted to light.
However, if the tank was kept completely dark,people would not be able to see the small replica of the Titanic in thecenter of the tank, which, after all, was the main point of the exhibit.
Putting lights inside the model of the wreck looked too artificial.
Thedesigner considered shining a powerful spotlight on the model of thevessel.
However, if the spotlight was located inside the tank, it wouldraise the temperature of the water too high; and if it was locatedoutside the tank, the bright beam seriously disrupted the feeding habits of some of the fish.
So it looked like the display was going tohave an embarrassing shortcoming.
What could be done to light the display?
Write your solutionbelow.
Remember to use the same principles that were used in thestories you read.
Just before the display was to open, the designer hit upon a newidea.
She had several low powered spotlights placed at differentlocations around the outside of the tank, all focused on the replica ofthe ship.
Each of the lights was quite dim, so the light averse fish werenot disturbed as they swam around the Titanic.
But since all of thelights were focused on the ship, their beams added up so as toilluminate it enough that its realistic details could be seen by viewers.
When the display opened, everyone thought it was both realistic andesthetically striking.
Karla the Hawk: Karla, an old hawk, lived at the top of a tall oak tree.
One afternoon, she saw a hunter on the ground with a bow and some crude arrows that had no feathers.
The hunter took aim and shot at the hawk but missed.
Karla knew the hunter wanted her feathers
so she glided down to the hunter and offered to give him a few.
The hunter was so grateful that he pledged never to shoot at a hawk again.
He went off and shot a deer instead.
Fido is hungry.
Rover is friendly.
Rover is hungry.
Blackie is frisky.
Blackie is friendly.
An engineer had to plan the construction of an artificial lake to produce electric energy.
To feed the lake he thought to build a unique wide canal collecting water coming from a near valley.
However, a mason pointed out that during the flood periods the stream of water flowing along the canal might be too strong and might damage the surrounding areas; by contrast, during the drought periods a unique stream of water might be insufficient to feed the lake.
In order to avoid these mishaps, the mason suggested to build, instead of a unique wide canal, four small canals whose total flow was the same as the unique wide canal previously planned.
These small canals were placed around the lake so that they conveyed water coming from four different valleys.
In this way only small amounts of water could flow in each canal and thus during flood periods dangerous overflowing might not occur.
At the same time, the lake was fed by water from various belts, so that also during drought periods it was sufficiency that the fed.
The Fire ChiefOne night a fire broke out in a wood shed full of timber on Mr Johnson place.
As soon as he saw flames he sounded the alarm, and within minutes dozens of neighbors were on the scene armed with buckets.
The shed was already burning fiercely, and everyone was afraid that if it t controlled quickly the house would go up next.
Fortunately, the shed was right beside a lake, so there was plenty of water available.
If a large volume of water could hit the fire at the same time, it would be extinguished.
But with only small buckets to work with, it was hard to make any headway.
The fire seemed to evaporate each bucket of water before it hit the wood.
It looked like the house was doomed.
Just then the fire chief arrived.
He immediately took charge and organized everyone.
He had everyone fill their bucket and then wait in a circle surrounding the burning shed.
As soon as the last man was prepared, the chief gave a shout and everyone threw their bucket of water at the tire.
The force of all the water together dampened the fire right down, and it was quickly brought under control, Mr Johnson was relieved that his house was saved, and the village council voted the tire chief a raise in pay.
The music department at Gordmont is a relatively new department, begun in 1987 inresponse to student pressure for more music classes.
Because of the focus on undergraduateeducation at Gordmont, the University searched for the best instructors that it couldfind.
The success of this effort is evident in the fact that the faculty in this department havebeen awarded the prestigious University Teaching Award in each of the last three years.
Interestingly, the music department is also the smallest on campus.
Because it is a newdepartment, it has taken some time to hire as many faculty as were originally planned whenthe department was formed.
Miss Piggy most precious possessions were her jewels.
She kept them in a jewel box on top of her dresser.
She decided they weren't very safe there, so she wanted to move them to a strong safe on the other side of the room.
Miss Piggy started to carry a few of her jewels across the room to the safe.
But just then Gonzo went running through the room, with Fozzy Bear chasing him.
They almost knocked Miss Piggy down.
She was afraid they would come back at any moment and make her drop some jewels and lose them.
She had so many jewels how could she get them all over to the safe quickly and safely?
Suddenly Miss Piggy had a great idea.
She rolled up her carpet off the floor and picked it up.
The carpet just reached from her jewel box to the safe.
Then Miss Piggy quickly rolled her jewels through the rolled carpet and into the safe.
She was finished in a jiffy, before Fozzy Bear and Gonzo came back.
The jewels were safe, and Miss Piggy was very happy.
Attack Dispersion storyA fortress was located in the center of the country.
Many roads radiated out from the fortress.
A general wanted to capture the fortress with his army.
The general wanted to prevent mines on the roads from destroying his army and neighboring villages.
As a result the entire army could not attack the fortress along one road.
However, the entire army was needed to capture the fortress.
So an attack by one small group would not succeed.
The general therefore divided his army into several small groups.
He positioned the small groups at the heads of different roads.
The small groups simultaneously converged on the fortress.
In this way the army captured the fortress.
The English Department is one of the largest departments at Fallsburg.
Unfortunately,many of the faculty in the English department have strong personalities and big egos.
Inevitably,this has led to personality clashes among the faculty.
It is not uncommon for facultymeetings in this department to erupt into shouting matches.
One result of these argumentsis that the faculty rarely go to their University offices, except during office hours to avoidrunning into their colleagues.
The faculty in English are quite active researchers, and almost all of them have researchgrants from large government agencies.
These grants provide the department with moneyto hire personnel.
Because of the large number of grants, the department has been able tohire research assistants for every faculty member.
